38 CFR § 3.156 — New and material evidence.

(a) New and material evidence. A claimant may reopen a finally adjudicated
claim by submitting new and material evidence. New evidence means existing
evidence not previously submitted to agency decisionmakers. Material
evidence means existing evidence that, by itself or when considered with
previous evidence of record, relates to an unestablished fact necessary to
substantiate the claim. New and material evidence can be neither cumulative
nor redundant of the evidence of record at the time of the last prior
final denial of the claim sought to be reopened, and must raise a
reasonable possibility of substantiating the claim.

(b) Pending claim. New and material evidence received prior to the
expiration of the appeal period, or prior to the appellate decision if a
timely appeal has been filed (including evidence received prior to an
appellate decision and referred to the agency of original jurisdiction by
the Board of Veterans Appeals without consideration in that decision in
accordance with the provisions of § 20.1304(b)(1) of this chapter), will
be considered as having been filed in connection with the claim which was
pending at the beginning of the appeal period.

(c) Service department records.

(1) Notwithstanding any other section in this part, at any time after VA
issues a decision on a claim, if VA receives or associates with the
claims file relevant official service department records that existed
and had not been associated with the claims file when VA first decided
the claim, VA will reconsider the claim, notwithstanding paragraph (a)
of this section.

(2) An award made based all or in part on the records identified by
paragraph (c)(1) of this section is effective on the date entitlement
arose or the date VA received the previously decided claim, whichever
is later, or such other date as may be authorized by the provisions of
this part applicable to the previously decided claim.

(d) Supplemental claim. A claimant may file a supplemental claim as
prescribed in § 3.2501. If new and relevant evidence is presented or
secured with respect to a supplemental claim, the agency of original
jurisdiction will readjudicate the claim taking into consideration all
the evidence of record.
